---
layout: post
title: "CoprHD 3.0 is Out"
date: 2016-05-23
---

Announcing CoprHD 3.0! 
----------------------

CoprHD 3.0 is out! This release contains significant new features, and is the first release to ship with community contributions. For details on new features in this release, see the following links:

* (CoprHD 3.0 Features Doc)[https://coprhd.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COP/3.0+Release+Features]
* (3.0 Release Notes)[https://coprhd.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COP/3.0+Release+Notes]

SouthBound SDK for Storage Drivers
----------------------------------

CoprHD has always had a way to create drivers for storage systems that were hitherto unsupported. However, it was a non-trivial process to add new storage drivers, and it required changing common code, increasing the risk for crashing the software. Now, we have abstracted away the libraries needed for storage drivers into one convenient API, enabling developers to more easily add new drivers without damaging an existing deployment. 

Storage Orchestration for OpenStack (SOFO)
------------------------------------------

CoprHD support for OpenStack has been enhanced by providing support for storage orchestration for OpenStack. Now you can use CoprHD to manage block storage in an OpenStack deployment. In OpenStack, there is a project called 'Cinder' that is used to provision and manage block storage. It has a defined set of standard REST APIs for enterprise storage management. We have now implemented the Cinder API for CoprHD so you can simply plug it into an existing OpenStack instance. The SOFO implementation uses a Java implementation of the REST APIs to enable CoprHD to manage block storage in OpenStack deployments.

Application Constructs and Services
-----------------------------------

An application is a logical grouping of volumes determined by the customer. With application services, you can create, restore, resynchronize, detach, or delete full copies or snapshots of the volumes that are grouped by application.

Download a CoprHD 3.0 Appliance
-------------------------------

The simplest way to get CoprHD up and running is to download an appliance.  For your convenience we'd made it available in a number of popular appliance formats including VMware (vSphere & Workstation), VirtualBox, and a few others that are less well tested. Follow the link below to find your preferred format.

* (CoprHD-3.0 Appliances)[https://build.coprhd.org/jenkins/userContent/releases/CoprHD-3.0.0.0.310/]

Deploy Using Vagrant
--------------------

Christopher Banck ([GitHub user vchrisb](https://github.com/vchrisb)) created an easy-to-use Vagrant-based setup for CoprHD. Take a look below:

* (CoprHD Vagrant script)[https://github.com/vchrisb/vagrant-coprhd]

Intel engineer Curt Bruns added a ScaleIO configuration to the above so you can deploy CoprHD and a ScaleIO backend to discover, provision, and use for block volume operations.

* (Wiki page primer)[https://coprhd.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COP/CoprHD+Deployment+with+Vagrant]
* (CoprHD 3.0 + ScaleIO)[https://review.coprhd.org/projects/CE/repos/coprhd-aio/browse]

Build from Source
-----------------

Recommended for more experienced developers who don't want to use a vagrant based virtual machine or appliance. Right now it's only confirmed to work on openSUSE, although there is work in progress to make CoprHD available on Ubuntu.

* (Build and run CoprHD)[https://coprhd.atlassian.net/wiki/display/COP/How+to+Download+and+Build+CoprHD]

Install the RPM for openSUSE
----------------------------

Recommended for experienced users who don't want to use a vagrant based virtual machine or appliance. This is only slightly less work than building from source, because you still have the same dependencies to install from the steps above. Right now we only know how to build RPMs for OpenSUSE 13.x. If you'd like to take a look at using it with other operating systems, we'd like to hear from you.

* (Download the RPM)[https://build.coprhd.org/jenkins/job/CH-coprhd-controller-release-3.0/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/CH-coprhd-controller-release-3.0/build/RPMS/x86_64/storageos-3.0.0.0.4-1.x86_64.rpm]

